[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> So in the last episode,
we talked about the pathway
of challenge, and we started to
explore the nature of the human
shadow and how we can use the
Gene Keys to explore our own
shadow patterns, and
then transform them,
and find the gold that's
hiding in those dark,
underworld places in our being.
Now, we're going to look at
the pathway of breakthrough.
So as we journey through
our activation sequence,
this is the second
pathway that we come to.
And it's the nexus
of our alchemy.
And it ignites a
magical sphere called
the sphere of our Radiance.
And our Radiance
is the inner light
that lies dormant inside
us, within our DNA,
and it's waiting for
us to catalyze it.
And as we embrace the challenge
that our evolution keeps
throwing at us, those
unexpected curveballs
lobbed at us by the gods, we
ignite these breakthroughs.
So this session is all
about breakthrough,
and this is where we get to meet
the inner light face-to-face.
Everyone has a secret
untransformed radiance.
We often see in these old
icons of saints and buddhas,
we see this aura or
light, or this halo
around a person's head.
And these images
aren't just figurative.
This is actually a deep
scientific insight.
And when you look
down at your body
and you look at your
hands and your legs,
what you perhaps don't
realize is that you actually
made up of light.
You're made up of the
light of consciousness.
And the light of consciousness
is inside everything.
It's everywhere.
It's timeless, eternal, and it
connects and bridges all things.
And so, because the subtle
light of consciousness
is buried in our DNA, when
we manage to awaken it,
extraordinary things
can happen in our lives.
And I'm a poet and
I'm a storyteller
from the Celtic lands.
So this is DNA seen through
the eyes of a mystic,
not only through the
eyes of a scientist.
Deoxyribonucleic acid
doesn't sound very mystical,
but DNA is the multidimensional
programming software
of human consciousness.
So your DNA is the
code of your life.
It's a phosphorescence,
like those tiny sea
creatures that glow at night
on the edges of the waves.
It's made up of phosphates.
It's like a coiled serpent.
It's a super sensitive
to have intelligence
found in every single
cell of your body.
You're a sleeping dragon,
10 billion miles of radiance
and inner fire
coiled inside you.
And that's how much
light there is inside us.
So depending on your
attitude at any given moment,
your DNA designs your reality.
And as you raise the
frequency of energy passing
through your DNA, it can
unveil these higher programming
functions that were
lying latent inside you.
So it can wake the
sleeping dragon,
the true power inside you.
And when these higher
functions awaken,
they can give rise to
all manner of miracles.
And with the Gene Keys, we can
anchor those higher frequencies
permanently in our DNA.
So your DNA is a kind
of superconductor.
It's made up of these
phosphates which
have electrochemical
charge capacities.
So they can read energetic
signatures all around you.
They can take in the
frequency of your environment
and then convert that
into your chemistry.
They can also
upload and download
and store data, energetic data,
at different quantum levels.
So bioenergetic data,
mental data, emotional data,
it's all stored inside our DNA.
And DNA has been shown to
capture and weave light photons
around itself
because of its love
of creating toroidal shapes.
And in that sense, you could
look upon DNA as a wormhole,
as it spontaneously forms
these serpentine shapes,
these mini tornadoes
of consciousness,
which generate powerful
currents within us.
And this is what
allows us to harmonize
with universal patterns and
geometries found in nature.
So in that respect,
we are made up
of trillions of tiny
wormholes, and we're also
one giant wormhole.
So think about this.
DNA is constantly
converting the frequency
of the quantum environment
into the chemistry of our body.
So the quantum
environment around you
is made up of energy signatures
of all the people around you.
And that's why some people lift
our spirits and others lower
our spirits.
The thought forms, the opinions,
the worldviews of the people
that we're connected
with, they're
all part of your
quantum environment.
So if you've ever spent
time alone in deep silence
and then another person
suddenly steps into your space,
you can immediately feel
their inner quantum world.
And depending on their
frequency at that given moment,
you pick up everything, whether
it's a Shadow, a Gift, a Siddhi.
We also know that DNA
expands and contracts
according to emotions and
thoughts and attitude.
And it's also written in
a user-friendly, simple,
programmable language.
And so a computer can read
your DNA and sequence it.
It's very similar to
human languages in the way
that it's created.
So your DNA understands the
frequencies of language itself.
So it understands these
words being spoken right now.
Not perhaps the literal meaning,
but the energetic signature
behind the tone and
cadence of these words.
So when we're using the
words for the Shadows
and the Gifts and
the Siddhis, we're
actually using a language
that DNA can relate to
and can resonate with
at a frequency level.
So by using the Gene
Keys, you can literally
reprogram your whole life.
And then there are also
epigenetic influences.
And these are influences
that come from outside us.
So our environment where
we live impacts our DNA.
If you live in a country
in a rural situation
that's going to
shape who you are.
Or if you live in
an urban situation,
you'll be strongly impacted by
all the different frequencies
around you.
And neither one is
better than the other.
It's just about how you can take
advantage of each environment,
or else you become a
victim of that environment.
And we're also impacted
by the cosmic environment,
by celestial and
solar radiation,
by sunspot activity, and
the movements and geometries
of the spheres.
These are subtle but
powerful frequencies,
and this has always
been the intuition
of true astrology, the
ability to read and interpret
celestial frequencies as
they impact our biology.
We're also impacted
by diet and lifestyle.
That's another
epigenetic influence.
What we eat, how we
live is who we become.
Our DNA is also
impacted by crisis,
by things like wars or divorce
or death or stress or world
politics.
So everything that
happens around us
is impacting us at
a genetic level.
And that includes the
good things as well, so
beautiful works of art, the
movies we watch, the music we
listen to.
And if we're constantly watching
the news headlines and all
they do is relay the
shadow, that too is then
programming our DNA.
Words like unprecedented,
alarmed, protest,
unrest, radical, failed.
And of course, our technology
is another epigenetic influence
on us.
Our use of social media,
of what we take in
and how we take it in.
And the key thing with
all of this is attitude.
So how do we build
resilience so that we're
able to not just withstand
it all, but transform
all that shadow frequency
into something more refined?
And the answer lies
in your Radiance.
Look at your profile for a
moment, and look at the Gene Key
that you have there in
the Radiance sphere.
That shadow that
you have there is
how you allow the
world to overwhelm you.
And that gift that
you have there
is how you handle that
overwhelm and turn it around.
So I have, for instance, Gene
Key 35, the gift of adventure.
So I just turn everything
into an adventure.
Every difficulty can
be seen as a means
of opening up to greater love.
And the worst thing we
can do is to shut down,
to hide away, or try and
avoid negative influences.
We can't avoid them.
They're in the
quantum environment.
I mean, you can stop
listening to the news,
but unless everyone else stops,
then that quantum environment
of fear doesn't stop.
You can close your eyes and
your ears and your doors,
but it doesn't go away.
So we have to learn
to unlock the Gift
and the Siddhi of our Radiance.
Our health depends on it.
But it can also feel
kind of counterintuitive,
like when a storm comes.
Most of us want to run indoors
rather than go out and embrace
the storm with an open heart.
But when we do open our heart
and the light pours through us,
it transforms everything.
All those negative
frequencies are instantly
vaporized by our love.
So when you unlock the
gift of your radiance,
you'll never be alarmed by
any epigenetic negative forces
again, ever.
And this is the
great breakthrough
that we each have to
make in our lives.
I also want to say a word
here about DNA and memory,
because we now know
through science
that the ancestral
memories can be carried
forwards for many generations.
And so traumatic
experiences can be imprinted
in US from several
generations back,
and we can carry them
unwittingly into our lives,
often without realizing it.
So a lot of us have been
carrying around different kinds
of genetic burdens,
but at the same time,
we also carry the
gifts of our ancestors.
And no one knows how
deep these memories go,
so it's really interesting
just to consider these things.
For instance, the
fractal architecture
of what's called the
non-coding DNA that makes up
99% of all the DNA in our
body, it's quite likely
to be where the secret
memories of our ancestral lines
are encoded.
Nature doesn't do
things for no reason.
Just because we don't understand
what it is, doesn't mean
it doesn't hide a huge secret.
And my mystic hunch is that
most of the DNA inside us
holds the evolutionary
memory of our entire species,
of our entire
lineage encoded form.
So we know what it's like to be
a lion, or a turtle, or a worm,
or a bird, because we've
been all those creatures.
And we're also gods.
We are the oak tree that
lies hidden in the acorn.
We are the butterfly hidden
inside the caterpillar.
We contain universes inside
these Siddhis, these heightened
states, these future memories.
We are gods and
goddesses in the making.
Anyway, let's return
to the profile
and have a look at this
pathway of breakthrough,
and how it leads to the
Gene Key of Radiance.
Look at the Gift and the Siddhi
in your Radiance Gene Key.
These are the qualities
waiting to emerge through you
as you open to these higher
frequencies in your life.
So when you look
at your Radiance,
I want you to see it as the
magical gift that is wanting
to pour through into your life.
And it's really what
keeps us healthy.
And so much of health is to
do with this inner light.
True health is about
allowing this life force
to pour through our
body and our being,
and being able to meet our
shadows with the uplifting
energy and the frequency
of these gifts.
So when you can look at
the shadow of the Gene
Key of your Radiance,
that is what
may be undermining your health.
So take a good look at
it and go deep into it
over the coming
weeks, and really
think about how you might be
undermining your own health.
Here in my Radiance, you can
see that I have the shadow
of hunger, Gene Key 35, hunger.
So for me, that
hunger, the shadow side
of the boundlessness
of the Siddhi,
of the boundless
energy, that shadow
is a deep sense of
restlessness that I feel.
Many of us feel this.
And you see how
restlessness is kind
of untransformed boundlessness?
So when I become
restless in my spirit,
I can really undermine my
health because I lose touch
with a state of trust in life.
I lose my flow, and
then I become perturbed,
and I feel stress
moving through my body.
So this is something that
I have to watch in my life,
that I don't give way to
that sense of restlessness.
OK, I'd like to take us a bit
deeper now into our profiles,
and I'd like to introduce
you to the 6 lines.
Every Gene Key is
made up of a hexagram
from the Chinese I Ching,
this great mystic book written
thousands of years ago.
And a hexagram is a stacked
symbol made up of six lines.
They're either broken
or unbroken lines.
And these six lines, they're
like colors or codings
that add a lot of depth
and story to each Gene Key.
So if you look at
your profile, you'll
see that every one of
your Gene Key numbers
has a dot and then another
number after the dot.
This is your line number,
and it's between 1 and 6.
It's always got to be
between number 1 and 6.
This means that every
one of your Gene Keys
is in one of six
potential octaves.
And so you'll have a mixture of
lines throughout your profile.
And we simply don't have time
to explore all the 64 Gene
Keys in this series.
But we are going to
explore these six lines
and see what amazing stories
they hold for each of us.
So let's take a
little journey now
through the six lines
of our radiance.
And the thing about the
lines is that we're actually
influenced by all of
them, all the lines,
because we live in this
quantum environment.
You can pay special attention
when we come to your line,
but they really contain
insights for us all.
So if you have a line 1
here in your radiance,
then you're someone who has
to understand your own health.
You really have to
know your own body
and educate yourself
about health,
and explore all the different
possibilities of what
makes you healthy.
Here's an example
of Ra Uru Hu, and he
was the founder of
Human Design, which
has been a great inspiration
for the Gene Keys.
And Ra had a first
line radiance,
and it's all about individual
empowerment, the first line.
So line 1's are very
deep contemplators.
And this iconic
statement, "know thyself,"
is a deep inward journey
that keeps line 1 healthy.
And it's not that
everyone has to create
their own system like Ra did.
This is about empowering
yourself and empowering others
to take responsibility
for their own well-being.
It's about knowing what's good
for you and choosing that.
It's what protects you, it
inspires you and ultimately
increases your radiance.
If you have a line 2
Radiance, then the best way
you can enhance your
health is through flow.
This is about being easygoing.
Line 2 doesn't need to
understand everything
like line 1.
Line 2 is more
lazy in a good way.
It's effortless.
Line 2's Radiance
comes from intimacy,
from deep relational skills.
This is about not falling victim
to someone else's pressure
patterns.
So if you have a
line 2 Radiance,
there may be an area
where you're just
naturally gifted without
needing to really study.
And maybe you are a spontaneous,
self-taught musician,
or you just have an uncanny
knack for something, some skill,
and you never really
had to try too hard.
If you're a line 2,
don't try too hard.
Do the things that flow for you.
And you have a
natural grace in life.
And you unlock your radiance
by choosing the effortless path
in life.
If you have a line
3 Radiance, then one
of the most important ways
for you to keep healthy
is through regular
exercise, dynamic exercise.
Here's an example,
Serena Williams.
She's a good example
of a line 3 Radiance.
She's someone who has to
work out regularly and move
her body in a very dynamic
way to get the blood pumping
and flowing through the system.
So this is radiant
health, through energy,
through vigorous exercise,
through fulfilling activity.
So if you're a line
3 Radiance, then
make sure that you finish
your day with no energy left.
You increase your health
through spending your energy,
not through saving it.
So you get to see perhaps
how each of these lines
unlocks a lesson in
health for humanity.
Line 1, understanding.
Line 2, flow.
Line 3, exercise.
If you have a line 4
Radiance, then for you,
health is all about
connectivity and the need
to belong in a community and
feel the regular connection
of people around you.
Oprah Winfrey is a good
example of a line 4 Radiance.
She's someone that needs to keep
that service moving and flowing
in a community and in a culture.
This is about meeting and
working with different people,
exploring diversity,
sharing your emotional life,
being open-hearted.
These are often lives lived
in service or devotion
to a cause or a group.
Line 4 really needs to feel a
sense of communal belonging.
That's how line 4
lives a radiant life.
If you have a line
5 Radiance, then you
are a great problem-solver.
You need problems to solve and
you need to be helping others,
but perhaps in a
different way from line 4.
It's not so much about community
for you, but practicality.
You just want to
see things improve.
You need to feel you're
having an impact,
or be involved in a project
where you can have an impact.
Mother Teresa is a good
example of a line 5 Radiance.
She needed problems to solve so
that she could keep on helping
others in a wider way.
The highest expressions
of a line 5 Radiance
also can have a more
global impact that lives on
long after they've gone.
If you're a line 6 Radiance,
then you need to have a vision
and you need to be working
towards that vision.
And you need to have this sense
of being involved in something
that's far bigger than you.
Alan Turing, the father
of the modern computer,
is a good example of a line 6.
He had a big vision.
He trusted in it, and then
he started building it,
knowing perhaps somewhere
deep inside himself
that this would travel far
further after he was gone.
So in a line 6, you need to
get involved in something
that will far
outlive you and that
will help the children
of future generations.
That's how you
fulfill your radiance.
So there are the six
lines of Radiance,
the keystones of human health.
Line 1, understanding; line
2, flow; line 3, exercise;
line 4, a sense of
community and belonging;
line 5, problems to solve
that have an impact;
line 6, a vision
that outlives you.
These are actually remarkably
similar to the metrics
they found in blue
zones, the places
where more people lived to
over 100 than anywhere else.
So pay special attention
to your line number
as it will really help
release your radiance.
I'd like to end by looking
at a few powerful, awakened
radiant beings.
And sometimes when
we see these people
or we see photographs
of them, we
can see the radiance
coming out of their eyes.
Or we may get a
sense that they've
experienced some of
the Siddhis or are
manifesting ecstatic states.
So it's really good to look at
the radiance key in your profile
and see what Siddhi
you have there,
because that
highest frequency is
what you're here to ultimately
manifest in the world.
We've already seen Yogananda,
who was an illuminated being.
And you can see that he had
Gene Key 57 as his Radiance.
And the journey of Gene
Key 57 is from unease
through intuition to clarity.
And so we can be
very grateful that he
battled that unease
early in his life
and overcame it so that he could
find this intuitive awareness
right at the heart of his
being, which then led him
all the way on
his spiritual path
to an incredible clarity
of consciousness.
And he wrote about this
clarity in many of his books.
So this is his
Radiance as clarity.
Finally, this is another Indian
saint, Sri Anandamayi Ma,
and she has Gene Key 19
as her Radiance, which
is the Siddhi of sacrifice.
So at the age of 3, she fell
into a spontaneous ecstasy
that lasted the whole
length of her long life.
That was the breakthrough
of her radiance.
And she gave her entire life
to serving others and helping
them cut through their egos
and make the ultimate sacrifice
to surrender to the
evolutionary currents of grace.
And many people and a lot
of wealthy and famous people
became her devotees.
So what does your Radiance
say about your inner light?
When you are in
the flow with life,
feeling healthy, and vibrant,
what does this glow look
like and feel like?
If you're ever
feeling off, or you're
out of sorts, or that your light
isn't really shining anymore,
remember the gift and the
Siddhi of your Radiance.
And then imagine
holding them softly
like a little candle
glowing within you.
This light hasn't gone out.
It's shines within your every
cell, and your breakdowns
and your breakthroughs will
show you this light if you have
the courage to go towards it.
So I hope this was
all inspiring for you.
It's vital to keep
contemplating your radiance
and try to really bring
it into your life.
Not as some kind of
false showy holy thing,
but deep into your biology,
into the cells of your body,
into your DNA.
So open up to the potential
of that inner light.
Open yourself up
to the potential
of your own breakthrough.
And feel your radiance as
a quiet inner connection
through your heart and
into the ocean of love that
lives inside each of us.
And remember these
simple words of Rumi,
"love itself describes
its own perfection.
Be speechless and listen."
Next time, we'll bring our
activation sequence to a close
by anchoring all this radiance
down into the form of our lives
as a sense of profound
and enduring purpose.
And we'll discover
the truth about how
we can really fulfill our
true higher purpose in life.
[THEME MUSIC]